---
layout: post
title: RCTF18 PWN 317
tags: [ctf, pwn, write-up, rctf18, null-byte-heap-overflow, fastbin-attack]
---

### Challenge: [babyheap](../ctfs/rctf18/pwn/babyheap/babyheap)
(**PS**: *libc was provided for this challenge*)

### Reversing
```bash
$ file ./babyheap
babyheap: ELF 64-bit LSB shared object, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for GNU/Linux 2.6.32, BuildID[sha1]=220fd4e3e91c4ef2413cc0a4c222a0548602662e, stripped
$ checksec ./babyheap
    Arch:     amd64-64-little
    RELRO:    Full RELRO
    Stack:    Canary found
    NX:       NX enabled
    PIE:      PIE enabled
```
So its a 64 bit binary and with lot of protections ;D  
Challenge binary provides four options  
**Alloc** - Allows us to allocate maximum size of 0x100 heap chunks and write content in them  
**Show** - Shows content of the heap chunk, provided the index  
**Delete** - Frees heap chunk, provided the index  
**Exit** - Terminates the process  
If we quickly go through the binary in IDA  
```
To Do
```
We can clearly spot null byte heap overflow in above function.  

### Exploitation
**Basic Steps**
- Exploit null byte heap overflow by *Shrinking Free Chunks* technique to leak libc base
- Overwrite *__malloc_hook* by using *Fastbin Attack* to get code execution

Now where we go with this? There is a nice paper about *Shrinking Free Chunks* attack [here](https://info.contextis.com/acton/attachment/24535/f-02c8/1/-/-/-/-/Glibc%20Adventures%3A%20The%20forgotten%20chunks.pdf).  This technique basically works by clearing prev_in_use bit of the next chunk and crafting prev_size so that when freeing next chunk, next chunk will be consolidated with a faked larger chunk creating overlapping on the forgotten heap chunk. For this technique to work, heap chunks of size larger than 0xff is needed. Luckily we can.  

Below is the pictorial represention of what we will do  
(smallbin - sb, fastbin - fb)  

Heap Allocations --->  
sb1 (to overlap fb1 by merging with sb2) | fb1 (to be overlapped) | sb2 (to be null byte overflowed) | fb2 (to prevent consolidation with top chunk)  
First allocate all four chunks  
```
(0,0x101)("S"* 0xf0)|(0,0x81)("F"* 0x70)|(0,0x101)("S"* 0xf0)|(0,0x41)("F"* 0x30)
```
Free first two  
```
(0,0x101)(addr,addr)("S"* 0xe0)|(0x100,0x80)(0,"F"* 0x60)|(0,0x101)("S"* 0xf0)|(0,0x41)("F"* 0x30)
```
Here we reallocate fb1 to perform null byte overflow into sb2 and changing sb2's prev_size to 0x180 and prev_in_use bit to 0.  
```
(0,0x101)(addr,addr)("S"* 0xe0)|(0x100,0x80)("F"* 0x70)|(0x180,0x100)("S"* 0xf0)|(0,0x41)("F"* 0x30)
```
Now if we free sb2, it will assume (sb1 + fb1) as one chunk and will be consolidated with (sb1 + fb1). And fb1 will be forgotten.  
```
(0,0x281)(addr,addr)("S"* 0xe0)|(0x100,0x80)("F"* 0x70)|(0x180,0x100)("S"* 0xf0)|(280,0x40)("F"* 0x30)
```
Now if we reallocate 0x100 byte sb1, 0x280 chunk will be broken into (0x100 + 0x180). 0x100 part will be *used* as sb1. 0x180 part will be free (having main_arena addresses) and overlapping our fb1.  
```
(0,0x101)("S"* 0xf0)|(0,0x181)(addr,addr)("F"* 0x60)|(0x180,0x100)("S"* 0xf0)|(180,0x40)("F"* 0x30)
```
 Now if we execute **Show** for fb1 which is being overlapped by newly formed (0x180) free chunk, it will leak the address of main_arena. From this address we can determine libc base address.  

 Now we need to find a way to get code execution. We can do it by fastbin attack. To understand fastbin attack [how2heap](https://github.com/shellphish/how2heap/blob/master/fastbin_dup_into_stack.c) by shellphish, I find very useful.  

 Basically the attack works by forcing malloc to return a pointer twice. First time when malloc returns the pointer we can write 8 byte address in it, of a fake chunk somewhere in memory. Now when the second time you return same pointer again the address of fake chunk gets added in fastbin free list. Then you can request the fake chunk using malloc and write to it.  

 Here we will be targeting *__malloc_hook*, we will create a fake chunk at (*__malloc_hook* - 0x23) and make that address returned by malloc so that we can overwrite *__malloc_hook* by *oneshot* gadget.  

 We create fake chunk at (*__malloc_hook* - 0x23) because we need this fake chunk to have *size* metadata that is in fastbin limit. In our case it will be 0x7f.  

 To do this, first we free sb1 again to get 0x280 chunk.  
 ```
 (0,0x281)(addr,addr)("S"* 0xe0)|(0,0x181)(addr,addr)("F"* 0x60)|(0x180,0x100)("S"* 0xf0)|(280,0x40)("F"* 0x30)
 ```
Now we will have (sb1 + fb1 + sb2) consolidated. Now what we want is to get pointer to overlapped chunk in one more *index* so that we can free it twice. To get that we can split 0x280 chunk in (0x20 + 0x70 + 0x70 + 0x70 + 110). Here third 0x70 will have the same pointer as the overlapped chunk (fb1). Rest is the typical fastbin attack.  

[Here](../ctfs/rctf18/pwn/babyheap/sploit.py) is the exploit code with comments.  
